Added documentation page of C++ access modifier: protected (#5998)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/access-modifiers/terms/protected/protected.md

---

> Title: 'protected'

Reviewer: Title should be in title case.

```suggestion
Title: 'Protected'
```

> Description: 'In C++, the protected access specifier is used to define the accessibility of class members. Members declared as protected are accessible within their own class and by derived classes (subclasses). However, they are not accessible from outside the class or derived classes. This ensures a certain level of encapsulation while still allowing subclass-specific extensions.'

Reviewer: The description is too long; it should be under 160 characters.

```suggestion
Description: 'Protected access modifier allows class members to be accessed within their class and by derived classes.'
```

Subjects:

>   - 'Computer Science'

Reviewer: We can also add the 'Code Foundations' subject here. For a complete list of subjects, refer to [subjects.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md).

```suggestion
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
```

Tags:
  - 'Accessibility'
  - 'Classes'
  - 'Encapsulation'
  - 'Inheritance'
  - 'Members'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'c-plus-plus-for-programmers'
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus-introduction'
  - 'learn-object-oriented-programming-with-c-plus-plus'
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus-classes-and-objects'
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus-references-and-pointers'
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus-loops'
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus-vectors'
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus-functions'
---

> In C++, the **`protected`** access specifier is used to define the accessibility of class members. Members declared as **`protected`** are accessible within their own class and by derived [`classes`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/classes) (subclasses). However, they are not accessible from outside the class or derived [`classes`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/classes). This ensures a certain level of [`encapsulation`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/encapsulation) while still allowing subclass-specific extensions.

Reviewer: We don't need to include the link to classes twice. We can also break this paragraph into smaller parts for better readability.

```suggestion
In C++, the **`protected`** access specifier is used to define the accessibility of class members. Members declared as **`protected`** are accessible within the class itself and by its derived [classes](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/classes) (subclasses). 

This approach balances [**encapsulation**](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/encapsulation and [**inheritance**](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/inheritance) by restricting access while enabling derived classes to extend functionality.
```

## Syntax

> The following code fragment defines a base [`class`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/classes) with two **`protected`** members, that can be accessed from derived classes.

Reviewer: We can skip the link here as we have already linked to the classes doc.

```suggestion
The following code fragment defines a base class with two `protected` members that can be accessed from derived classes.
```

> ```c++

Reviewer: It should `cpp` not `c++`.

```suggestion
```cpp
```

class BaseClass {
protected:
    // Protected members
    int myVar;
    void myFunc();
};
```

## Example
Next example demonstrating the use of the protected access specifier in C++:

> ```c++

Reviewer: It should be `cpp` not c++.

```suggestion
```cpp
```
